CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# How to contribute

We are really glad you're reading this, because we need volunteer developers to
help this project `SpectraFit`.

Here are some important resources:

- [Issues](https://github.com/Anselmoo/spectrafit/issues) for open BUG reports
  or feature requests
- [Pull requests](https://github.com/Anselmoo/spectrafit/pulls) for contributing
  code
- Millestones, which are listed below.

## Setup the development environment

`SpectraFit` is using [poetry][4] as python package management system and
[pre-commit][5] for managing git hooks. For fixing bugs or developing new
featuers, we recommend to use both tools. The python version should be `3.7.1`
or higher and can be optional managed via [pyenv][6].

```shell
pyenv local 3.8.11
poetry install
pre-commit install --install-hooks
```

Even if we have not git hook for code style `markdown`, `json`, and `yaml`
files, we prefer the [prettier style][7] and its extension for `toml` files.

## Milestones

- [x] Introducing a class concept for `SpectraFit` because it is very functional
      driven programmed; partially solved be exporting into submodules like
      `tools.py`
- [x] Implementing genetic solvers for fitting optimization problems, because
      [LMFIT][8] contains `differential_evolution` as solver.
- [x] Implementing `Global Fitting` as a part of the `SpectraFit` class
- [ ] Introducing JupyterLab
- [ ] Updating the Docker package configuration

## Testing

We are using only [GitHub-Actions][1] for [pre-commit][5] testing, the CI/CD
pipeline and the release.

## Submitting changes

Please send a [GitHub Pull Request to SpectraFit][9] with a clear list of what
you've done (read more about
[pull requests](http://help.github.com/pull-requests/)). We can always use more
test coverage. Please follow our coding conventions (below) and make sure all of
your commits are atomic (one feature per commit).

Always write a clear log message for your commits. One-line messages are fine
for small changes, but bigger changes should look like this:

```shell
git commit -m "A brief summary of the commit"
```

> A paragraph describing what changed and its impact.

## Coding conventions

Start reading our code and you'll get the hang of it. We optimize for
readability:

- We use as formaters:
  - [black](https://black.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)
  - [isort](https://pycqa.github.io/isort/)
  - [flake8](https://flake8.pycqa.org/en/latest/)
- We use the [google convention][2] for docstrings
- We use for `Markdown` and `JSON` [https://prettier.io](https://prettier.io)

## Note

This template is adapted from [opengovernment][3].

[1]: https://github.com/Anselmoo/spectrafit/actions
[2]: https://google.github.io/styleguide/pyguide.html
[3]: https://github.com/opengovernment/opengovernment/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md
[4]: https://python-poetry.org
[5]: https://pre-commit.com
[6]: https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv
[7]: https://prettier.io
[8]: https://lmfit.github.io/lmfit-py/fitting.html
[9]: https://github.com/Anselmoo/spectrafit/pulls

Commit message:

Adding prettier to the CI pipeline
Updating the contribution guidelines

Update .gitignore

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# How to contribute

We are really glad you're reading this, because we need volunteer developers to
help this project `SpectraFit`.

Here are some important resources:

- [Issues](https://github.com/Anselmoo/spectrafit/issues) for open BUG reports
  or feature requests
- [Pull requests](https://github.com/Anselmoo/spectrafit/pulls) for contributing
  code
- Millestones, which are listed below.

## Setup the development environment

`SpectraFit` is using [poetry][4] as python package management system and
[pre-commit][5] for managing git hooks. For fixing bugs or developing new
featuers, we recommend to use both tools. The python version should be `3.7.1`
or higher and can be optional managed via [pyenv][6].

```shell
pyenv local 3.8.11
poetry install
pre-commit install --install-hooks
```

Even if we have not git hook for code style `markdown`, `json`, and `yaml`
files, we prefer the [prettier style][7] and its extension for `toml` files.

## Milestones

- [x] Introducing a class concept for `SpectraFit` because it is very functional
      driven programmed; partially solved be exporting into submodules like
      `tools.py`
- [x] Implementing genetic solvers for fitting optimization problems, because
      [LMFIT][8] contains `differential_evolution` as solver.
- [x] Implementing `Global Fitting` as a part of the `SpectraFit` class
- [ ] Introducing JupyterLab
- [ ] Updating the Docker package configuration

## Testing

We are using only [GitHub-Actions][1] for [pre-commit][5] testing, the CI/CD
pipeline and the release.

## Submitting changes

Please send a [GitHub Pull Request to SpectraFit][9] with a clear list of what
you've done (read more about
[pull requests](http://help.github.com/pull-requests/)). We can always use more
test coverage. Please follow our coding conventions (below) and make sure all of
your commits are atomic (one feature per commit).

Always write a clear log message for your commits. One-line messages are fine
for small changes, but bigger changes should look like this:

```shell
git commit -m "A brief summary of the commit"
```

> A paragraph describing what changed and its impact.

## Coding conventions

Start reading our code and you'll get the hang of it. We optimize for
readability:

- We use as formaters for Python:
  - [![Code style: black](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg)](https://github.com/psf/black)
  - [![Imports: isort](https://img.shields.io/badge/%20imports-isort-%231674b1?style=flat&labelColor=ef8336)](https://pycqa.github.io/isort/)
  - [![Code style: flake8](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-flake8-brightgreen.svg)](https://flake8.pycqa.org/en/latest/)
  - [Google convention][2] for docstrings
- We use as formater for `Markdown`, `JSON` and `YAML` files:
  - [![code style: prettier](https://img.shields.io/badge/code_style-prettier-ff69b4.svg?style=flat-square&logo=prettier)](https://github.com/prettier/prettier)

## Note

This template is adapted from [opengovernment][3].

[1]: https://github.com/Anselmoo/spectrafit/actions
[2]: https://google.github.io/styleguide/pyguide.html
[3]: https://github.com/opengovernment/opengovernment/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md
[4]: https://python-poetry.org
[5]: https://pre-commit.com
[6]: https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv
[7]: https://prettier.io
[8]: https://lmfit.github.io/lmfit-py/fitting.html
[9]: https://github.com/Anselmoo/spectrafit/pulls
