README.md, before:

[![CI - Python Package](https://github.com/Anselmoo/spectrafit/actions/workflows/python-ci.yml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/Anselmoo/spectrafit/actions/workflows/python-ci.yml)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/Anselmoo/spectrafit/branch/main/graph/badge.svg?token=pNIMKwWsO2)](https://codecov.io/gh/Anselmoo/spectrafit)
[![PyPI](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/spectrafit?logo=PyPi&logoColor=yellow)](https://pypi.org/project/spectrafit/)
[![PyPI - Python Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/spectrafit?color=gree&logo=Python&logoColor=yellow)](https://pypi.org/project/spectrafit/)
[![pre-commit.ci status](https://results.pre-commit.ci/badge/github/Anselmoo/spectrafit/main.svg)](https://results.pre-commit.ci/latest/github/Anselmoo/spectrafit/main)

<p align="center">
<img src="https://github.com/Anselmoo/spectrafit/blob/c5f7ee05e5610fb8ef4e237a88f62977b6f832e5/docs/images/spectrafit_synopsis.png?raw=true">
</p>

# SpectraFit

`SpectraFit` is a command line tool for quick data fitting based on the regular
expression of distribution and linear functions. Furthermore, it can be also
used as a module in existing python code. A previous version of `SpectraFit` was
used for the following publication:

- [Measurement of the Ligand Field Spectra of Ferrous and Ferric Iron Chlorides Using 2p3d RIXS](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/abs/10.1021/acs.inorgchem.7b00940)

Now, it is completely rewritten and is more flexible. It is supporting all
common ASCII-data formats and it run on `Linux`, `Windows`, and `MacOS`.

## Scope

- Fitting of 2D data
- Using established and advanced solver methods
- Extensibility of the fitting function
- Guarantee traceability of the fitting results
- Saving all results in a _SQL-like-format_ (`CSV`) for publications
- Saving all results in a _NoSQL-like-format_ (`JSON`) for project management
- Having an API interface for Graph-databases

## Installation

via pip:

```shell
pip install spectrafit

# Upgrade

pip install spectrafit --upgrade
```

## Usage

`SpectraFit` needs as command line tool only two things:

1. The reference data, which should be fitted.
2. The input file, which contains the initial model.

As model files [json](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSON),
[toml](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/TOML), and
[yaml](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML) are supported. By making use of the
python `**kwargs` feature, the input file can call most of the following
functions of [LMFIT](https://lmfit.github.io/lmfit-py/index.html). LMFIT is the
workhorse for the fit optimization, which is macro wrapper based on:

1. [NumPy](https://www.numpy.org/)
2. [SciPy](https://www.scipy.org/)
3. [uncertainties](https://pythonhosted.org/uncertainties/)

In case of `SpectraFit`, we have further extend the package by:

1. [Pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org/)
2. [statsmodels](https://www.statsmodels.org/stable/index.html)
3. [numdifftools](https://github.com/pbrod/numdifftools)
4. [Matplotlib](https://matplotlib.org/) in combination with
   [Seaborn](https://seaborn.pydata.org/)

```shell
spectrafit data_file.txt -i input_file.json
```

```shell
usage: spectrafit [-h] [-o OUTFILE] [-i INPUT] [-ov] [-e0 ENERGY_START]
                  [-e1 ENERGY_STOP] [-s SMOOTH] [-sh SHIFT]
                  [-c COLUMN COLUMN] [-sep {    ,,,;,:,|, ,s+}] [-dec {.,,}]
                  [-hd HEADER] [-g {0,1,2}] [-auto] [-np] [-v] [-vb]
                  infile

Fast Fitting Program for ascii txt files.

positional arguments:
  infile                Filename of the spectra data

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -o OUTFILE, --outfile OUTFILE
                        Filename for the export, default to set to
                        'spectrafit_results'.
  -i INPUT, --input INPUT
                        Filename for the input parameter, default to set to
                        'fitting_input.toml'.Supported fileformats are:
                        '*.json', '*.yml', '*.yaml', and '*.toml'
  -ov, --oversampling   Oversampling the spectra by using factor of 5;
                        default to False.
  -e0 ENERGY_START, --energy_start ENERGY_START
                        Starting energy in eV; default to start of energy.
  -e1 ENERGY_STOP, --energy_stop ENERGY_STOP
                        Ending energy in eV; default to end of energy.
  -s SMOOTH, --smooth SMOOTH
                        Number of smooth points for lmfit; default to 0.
  -sh SHIFT, --shift SHIFT
                        Constant applied energy shift; default to 0.0.
  -c COLUMN COLUMN, --column COLUMN COLUMN
                        Selected columns for the energy- and intensity-values;
                        default to '0' for energy (x-axis) and '1' for intensity
                        (y-axis). In case of working with header, the column
                        should be set to the column names as 'str'; ; default
                        to 0 and 1.
  -sep { ,,,;,:,|, ,s+}, --separator { ,,,;,:,|, ,s+}
                        Redefine the type of separator; default to ' '.
  -dec {.,,}, --decimal {.,,}
                        Type of decimal separator; default to '.'.
  -hd HEADER, --header HEADER
                        Selected the header for the dataframe; default to None.
  -g {0,1,2}, --global {0,1,2}
                        Perform a global fit over the complete dataframe. The
                        options are '0' for classic fit (default). The
                        option '1' for global fitting with auto-definition
                        of the peaks depending on the column size and '2'
                        for self-defined global fitting routines.
  -auto, --autopeak     Auto detection of peaks in the spectra based on `SciPy`.
                        The position, height, and width are used as estimation
                        for the `Gaussian` models.The default option is 'False'
                        for  manual peak definition.
  -np, --noplot         No plotting the spectra and the fit of `SpectraFit`.
  -v, --version         Display the current version of `SpectraFit`.
  -vb, --verbose        Display the initial configuration parameters as a
                        dictionary.
```

## Documentation

Please see the [extended documentation](https://anselmoo.github.io/spectrafit/)
for the full usage of `SpectraFit`.

Commit message:

Fixed: #169 -> minimalistic printout for terminal

README.md, after:

[![CI - Python Package](https://github.com/Anselmoo/spectrafit/actions/workflows/python-ci.yml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/Anselmoo/spectrafit/actions/workflows/python-ci.yml)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/Anselmoo/spectrafit/branch/main/graph/badge.svg?token=pNIMKwWsO2)](https://codecov.io/gh/Anselmoo/spectrafit)
[![PyPI](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/spectrafit?logo=PyPi&logoColor=yellow)](https://pypi.org/project/spectrafit/)
[![PyPI - Python Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/spectrafit?color=gree&logo=Python&logoColor=yellow)](https://pypi.org/project/spectrafit/)
[![pre-commit.ci status](https://results.pre-commit.ci/badge/github/Anselmoo/spectrafit/main.svg)](https://results.pre-commit.ci/latest/github/Anselmoo/spectrafit/main)

<p align="center">
<img src="https://github.com/Anselmoo/spectrafit/blob/c5f7ee05e5610fb8ef4e237a88f62977b6f832e5/docs/images/spectrafit_synopsis.png?raw=true">
</p>

# SpectraFit

`SpectraFit` is a command line tool for quick data fitting based on the regular
expression of distribution and linear functions. Furthermore, it can be also
used as a module in existing python code. A previous version of `SpectraFit` was
used for the following publication:

- [Measurement of the Ligand Field Spectra of Ferrous and Ferric Iron Chlorides Using 2p3d RIXS](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/abs/10.1021/acs.inorgchem.7b00940)

Now, it is completely rewritten and is more flexible. It is supporting all
common ASCII-data formats and it run on `Linux`, `Windows`, and `MacOS`.

## Scope

- Fitting of 2D data
- Using established and advanced solver methods
- Extensibility of the fitting function
- Guarantee traceability of the fitting results
- Saving all results in a _SQL-like-format_ (`CSV`) for publications
- Saving all results in a _NoSQL-like-format_ (`JSON`) for project management
- Having an API interface for Graph-databases

## Installation

via pip:

```shell
pip install spectrafit

# Upgrade

pip install spectrafit --upgrade
```

## Usage

`SpectraFit` needs as command line tool only two things:

1. The reference data, which should be fitted.
2. The input file, which contains the initial model.

As model files [json](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSON),
[toml](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/TOML), and
[yaml](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML) are supported. By making use of the
python `**kwargs` feature, the input file can call most of the following
functions of [LMFIT](https://lmfit.github.io/lmfit-py/index.html). LMFIT is the
workhorse for the fit optimization, which is macro wrapper based on:

1. [NumPy](https://www.numpy.org/)
2. [SciPy](https://www.scipy.org/)
3. [uncertainties](https://pythonhosted.org/uncertainties/)

In case of `SpectraFit`, we have further extend the package by:

1. [Pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org/)
2. [statsmodels](https://www.statsmodels.org/stable/index.html)
3. [numdifftools](https://github.com/pbrod/numdifftools)
4. [Matplotlib](https://matplotlib.org/) in combination with
   [Seaborn](https://seaborn.pydata.org/)

```shell
spectrafit data_file.txt -i input_file.json
```

```shell
usage: spectrafit [-h] [-o OUTFILE] [-i INPUT] [-ov] [-e0 ENERGY_START]
                  [-e1 ENERGY_STOP] [-s SMOOTH] [-sh SHIFT]
                  [-c COLUMN COLUMN] [-sep {    ,,,;,:,|, ,s+}] [-dec {.,,}]
                  [-hd HEADER] [-g {0,1,2}] [-auto] [-np] [-v] [-vb]
                  infile

Fast Fitting Program for ascii txt files.

positional arguments:
  infile                Filename of the spectra data

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -o OUTFILE, --outfile OUTFILE
                        Filename for the export, default to set to
                        'spectrafit_results'.
  -i INPUT, --input INPUT
                        Filename for the input parameter, default to set to
                        'fitting_input.toml'.Supported fileformats are:
                        '*.json', '*.yml', '*.yaml', and '*.toml'
  -ov, --oversampling   Oversampling the spectra by using factor of 5;
                        default to False.
  -e0 ENERGY_START, --energy_start ENERGY_START
                        Starting energy in eV; default to start of energy.
  -e1 ENERGY_STOP, --energy_stop ENERGY_STOP
                        Ending energy in eV; default to end of energy.
  -s SMOOTH, --smooth SMOOTH
                        Number of smooth points for lmfit; default to 0.
  -sh SHIFT, --shift SHIFT
                        Constant applied energy shift; default to 0.0.
  -c COLUMN COLUMN, --column COLUMN COLUMN
                        Selected columns for the energy- and intensity-values;
                        default to '0' for energy (x-axis) and '1' for intensity
                        (y-axis). In case of working with header, the column
                        should be set to the column names as 'str'; ; default
                        to 0 and 1.
  -sep { ,,,;,:,|, ,s+}, --separator { ,,,;,:,|, ,s+}
                        Redefine the type of separator; default to ' '.
  -dec {.,,}, --decimal {.,,}
                        Type of decimal separator; default to '.'.
  -hd HEADER, --header HEADER
                        Selected the header for the dataframe; default to None.
  -g {0,1,2}, --global {0,1,2}
                        Perform a global fit over the complete dataframe. The
                        options are '0' for classic fit (default). The
                        option '1' for global fitting with auto-definition
                        of the peaks depending on the column size and '2'
                        for self-defined global fitting routines.
  -auto, --autopeak     Auto detection of peaks in the spectra based on `SciPy`.
                        The position, height, and width are used as estimation
                        for the `Gaussian` models.The default option is 'False'
                        for  manual peak definition.
  -np, --noplot         No plotting the spectra and the fit of `SpectraFit`.
  -v, --version         Display the current version of `SpectraFit`.
  -vb, --verbose        Display the initial configuration parameters and fit
                        results, as a table '1', as a dictionary '2', or not in
                        the terminal '0'. The default option is set to 1 for
                        table `printout`.
```

## Documentation

Please see the [extended documentation](https://anselmoo.github.io/spectrafit/)
for the full usage of `SpectraFit`.
