docs/examples/index.md, before:

---
title: SpectraFit Examples
description: Practical examples demonstrating the usage and capabilities of SpectraFit for spectral analysis
tags:
  - examples
  - tutorials
  - command-line
  - jupyter
  - practical-applications
---

# SpectraFit Examples

This section provides practical examples to help you understand and use **SpectraFit** effectively for your spectroscopic data analysis.

## Overview

The examples demonstrate various use cases and features of **SpectraFit**, from basic peak fitting to advanced applications. Each example includes detailed explanations, code snippets, and visualization of results.

!!! tip "Learning Path"
    Start with the basic examples and progress to more advanced topics. The examples build upon concepts introduced in earlier sections.

## Command-Line Examples

<div class="grid cards" markdown>

- :material-console: **[Fitting of a Single Feature](example1.md)** - Learn how to fit a single peak using the command-line interface.
- :material-file-document-multiple: **[JSON, TOML, YAML Inputs](example2.md)** - Use different input file formats for your fitting parameters.
- :material-chart-bell-curve: **[Multi Peak Fitting](example3.md)** - Handle complex spectra with multiple overlapping peaks.
- :material-flask: **[Working with Real Life Data](example4.md)** - Apply **SpectraFit** to experimental spectroscopic data.
- :material-function: **[Working with Expressions](example5.md)** - Create custom expressions for specialized fitting needs.
- :material-earth: **[Global Fitting](example6.md)** - Fit multiple datasets simultaneously with shared parameters.
- :material-robot: **[Automatic Fitting](example7.md)** - Use automated approaches for initial parameter estimation.
- :material-file-import: **[Working with Athena Data](example8.md)** - Import and process data from Athena XAS software.

</div>

## Jupyter Notebook Examples

Jupyter notebooks provide an interactive environment for **SpectraFit**, allowing real-time visualization and parameter adjustments.

<div class="grid cards" markdown>

- :material-chart-line: **[Default Plot](example9_1.ipynb)** - Basic visualization of fitting results in a notebook.
- :material-palette: **[Themes](example9_2.ipynb)** - Customize the appearance of your plots.
- :material-file-export: **[Export Results](example9_3.ipynb)** - Save and export your fitting results in various formats.
- :material-map: **[RIXS Map Visualization](example9_4.ipynb)** - Generate 2D maps from RIXS spectroscopy data.
- :material-code-json: **[Using Converters as Module](example9_5.ipynb)** - Convert between different file formats programmatically.
- :material-earth: **[RIXS Global-Fitting in Jupyter](example9_6.ipynb)** - Apply global fitting approaches to RIXS datasets.

</div>

## Application Areas

These examples cover applications in various spectroscopic techniques:

- X-ray Absorption Spectroscopy (XAS)
- X-ray Emission Spectroscopy (XES)
- Resonant Inelastic X-ray Scattering (RIXS)
- Optical Spectroscopy
- Vibrational Spectroscopy

## Next Steps

After exploring these examples, you may want to:

- Refer to the [Documentation](../doc/index.md) for deeper understanding
- Check the [API Reference](../api/spectrafit_api.md) for programmatic usage
- Create your own fitting procedures based on these examples

Commit message:

feat: :sparkles: add Mössbauer spectroscopy models and functionality
This update introduces robust Mössbauer spectroscopy capabilities and major improvements across models, tests, and documentation:

Features
- Implemented new spectral models: singlet, doublet, sextet, and octet patterns
- Added full test suite for Mössbauer models with velocity data fixtures
- Integrated Mössbauer documentation and examples into mkdocs
- Improved model parameter structure (e.g., magnetic angles, EFGs)
- Streamlined background handling across all models
- Standardized naming conventions (snake_case → camelCase e.g., isomer_shift → isomershift)
- Added utility functions for float64 velocity array conversion

Refactoring
- Introduced Pydantic-based attribute validation for spectral models
- Enhanced type hints using `NDArray` for better static analysis
- Removed unnecessary ClassVar uses from color schemas and converters
- Replaced direct comparisons with `np.isclose` for better floating-point precision
- General readability and maintainability improvements

Testing
- Improved assertion logic to validate non-null fields in API models
- Added unit tests for API model creation utilities
- Extended test coverage for edge cases and background effects
- Created backup test suite for extended Mössbauer model validations

CI/CD
- Updated GitHub Actions:
- `docker/build-push-action` → v6.17.0
- `codecov/codecov-action` → v5.4.3

docs/examples/index.md, after:

---
title: SpectraFit Examples
description: Practical examples demonstrating the usage and capabilities of SpectraFit for spectral analysis
tags:
  - examples
  - tutorials
  - command-line
  - jupyter
  - practical-applications
---

# SpectraFit Examples

This section provides practical examples to help you understand and use **SpectraFit** effectively for your spectroscopic data analysis.

## Overview

The examples demonstrate various use cases and features of **SpectraFit**, from basic peak fitting to advanced applications. Each example includes detailed explanations, code snippets, and visualization of results.

!!! tip "Learning Path"
Start with the basic examples and progress to more advanced topics. The examples build upon concepts introduced in earlier sections.

## Command-Line Examples

<div class="grid cards" markdown>

- :material-console: **[Fitting of a Single Feature](example1.md)** - Learn how to fit a single peak using the command-line interface.
- :material-file-document-multiple: **[JSON, TOML, YAML Inputs](example2.md)** - Use different input file formats for your fitting parameters.
- :material-chart-bell-curve: **[Multi Peak Fitting](example3.md)** - Handle complex spectra with multiple overlapping peaks.
- :material-flask: **[Working with Real Life Data](example4.md)** - Apply **SpectraFit** to experimental spectroscopic data.
- :material-function: **[Working with Expressions](example5.md)** - Create custom expressions for specialized fitting needs.
- :material-earth: **[Global Fitting](example6.md)** - Fit multiple datasets simultaneously with shared parameters.
- :material-robot: **[Automatic Fitting](example7.md)** - Use automated approaches for initial parameter estimation.
- :material-file-import: **[Working with Athena Data](example8.md)** - Import and process data from Athena XAS software.

</div>

## Jupyter Notebook Examples

Jupyter notebooks provide an interactive environment for **SpectraFit**, allowing real-time visualization and parameter adjustments.

<div class="grid cards" markdown>

- :material-chart-line: **[Default Plot](example9_1.ipynb)** - Basic visualization of fitting results in a notebook.
- :material-palette: **[Themes](example9_2.ipynb)** - Customize the appearance of your plots.
- :material-file-export: **[Export Results](example9_3.ipynb)** - Save and export your fitting results in various formats.
- :material-map: **[RIXS Map Visualization](example9_4.ipynb)** - Generate 2D maps from RIXS spectroscopy data.
- :material-code-json: **[Using Converters as Module](example9_5.ipynb)** - Convert between different file formats programmatically.
- :material-earth: **[RIXS Global-Fitting in Jupyter](example9_6.ipynb)** - Apply global fitting approaches to RIXS datasets.

- :material-atom: **[Mössbauer Spectroscopy](example10_1.ipynb)**

  Fit and analyze Mössbauer spectra with specialized models.

</div>

## Application Areas

These examples cover applications in various spectroscopic techniques:

- X-ray Absorption Spectroscopy (XAS)
- X-ray Emission Spectroscopy (XES)
- Resonant Inelastic X-ray Scattering (RIXS)
- Optical Spectroscopy
- Vibrational Spectroscopy
- Mössbauer Spectroscopy

## Next Steps

After exploring these examples, you may want to:

- Refer to the [Documentation](../doc/index.md) for deeper understanding
- Check the [API Reference](../api/spectrafit_api.md) for programmatic usage
- Create your own fitting procedures based on these examples
