docs/doc/expression.md, before:

`lmfit` also provides an expression parser for use in fitting models.
Consequently, the expression parser can be also used in SpectraFit for
generating fits with constraint conditions or global fits.

```json

"peaks": {
    "1": {
        "pseudovoigt": {
            "amplitude": {
                "max": 2,
                "min": 0,
                "vary": true,
                "value": 1
            },
            "center": {
                "max": 2,
                "min": -2,
                "vary": true,
                "value": 0
            },
    },
    "2": {
        "pseudovoigt": {
            "amplitude": {
                "expr": "pseudovoigt_amplitude_1"
            },
            "center": {
                "expr": "pseudovoigt_center_1 + 1.68"
            }
        }
    }
}

```

In this particular use case, the _amplitude_ of the second peak is set to the
_amplitude_ of the first peak; the _center_ of the second peak is set to the
_center_ of the first peak plus 1.68.

![_](../../examples/images/Figure_5.png)

> In this example, the expression parser is used to set the _amplitude_ of the
> peak 1 and 2 to equally, as well as the _center_ of peak 2 to the center of
> peak 1 plus 1.68.

!!! note "The right notation of peaks"

    In contrast to the `json`, `yaml`, or `toml` file, the peaks are written in
    the following way, that number of the peak is the last number.

    | `toml`                    | Definition                |
    | ------------------------- | ------------------------- |
    | number.function.attribute | function_attribute_number |

Commit message:

feat: :sparkles: add Mössbauer spectroscopy models and functionality
This update introduces robust Mössbauer spectroscopy capabilities and major improvements across models, tests, and documentation:

Features
- Implemented new spectral models: singlet, doublet, sextet, and octet patterns
- Added full test suite for Mössbauer models with velocity data fixtures
- Integrated Mössbauer documentation and examples into mkdocs
- Improved model parameter structure (e.g., magnetic angles, EFGs)
- Streamlined background handling across all models
- Standardized naming conventions (snake_case → camelCase e.g., isomer_shift → isomershift)
- Added utility functions for float64 velocity array conversion

Refactoring
- Introduced Pydantic-based attribute validation for spectral models
- Enhanced type hints using `NDArray` for better static analysis
- Removed unnecessary ClassVar uses from color schemas and converters
- Replaced direct comparisons with `np.isclose` for better floating-point precision
- General readability and maintainability improvements

Testing
- Improved assertion logic to validate non-null fields in API models
- Added unit tests for API model creation utilities
- Extended test coverage for edge cases and background effects
- Created backup test suite for extended Mössbauer model validations

CI/CD
- Updated GitHub Actions:
- `docker/build-push-action` → v6.17.0
- `codecov/codecov-action` → v5.4.3

docs/doc/expression.md, after:

---
title: Expressions
description: Using expressions in SpectraFit for advanced fitting and constraints
tags:
  - expressions
  - lmfit
  - fitting
  - constraints
---

## Expressions

`lmfit` also provides an expression parser for use in fitting models.
Consequently, the expression parser can be also used in SpectraFit for
generating fits with constraint conditions or global fits.

```json

"peaks": {
    "1": {
        "pseudovoigt": {
            "amplitude": {
                "max": 2,
                "min": 0,
                "vary": true,
                "value": 1
            },
            "center": {
                "max": 2,
                "min": -2,
                "vary": true,
                "value": 0
            },
    },
    "2": {
        "pseudovoigt": {
            "amplitude": {
                "expr": "pseudovoigt_amplitude_1"
            },
            "center": {
                "expr": "pseudovoigt_center_1 + 1.68"
            }
        }
    }
}

```

In this particular use case, the _amplitude_ of the second peak is set to the
_amplitude_ of the first peak; the _center_ of the second peak is set to the
_center_ of the first peak plus 1.68.

![_](../../examples/images/Figure_5.png)

> In this example, the expression parser is used to set the _amplitude_ of the
> peak 1 and 2 to equally, as well as the _center_ of peak 2 to the center of
> peak 1 plus 1.68.

!!! note "The right notation of peaks"

    In contrast to the `json`, `yaml`, or `toml` file, the peaks are written in
    the following way, that number of the peak is the last number.

    | `toml`                    | Definition                |
    | ------------------------- | ------------------------- |
    | number.function.attribute | function_attribute_number |
