docs/interface/usage.md, before:

## Standard Usage

In case of the standard usage of `SpectraFit`, the following steps are
necessary:

1. Having a structured textfile available with or without header. Preferred
   fileformat can be `.csv` or `.txt`; however every file with a consistent
   separation is supported.
   ```sql
           -1.600000000000000089e+00	0.000000000000000000e+00
           -1.583333333333333481e+00	3.891050583657595843e-03
           -1.566666666666666874e+00	3.973071404922200699e-03
           -1.550000000000000266e+00	4.057709648331829684e-03
           -1.533333333333333659e+00	4.145077720207249357e-03
           -1.516666666666667052e+00	4.235294117647067993e-03
   ```
2. A wide range of pre-defined separators can be choosen: `,`, `;`, `:`, `|`,
   `\t`, `s+`, ` `
3. Having an input file available as [json](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSON),
   [toml](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/TOML), or
   [yaml](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML). The input file has to have at
   least the initial parameters for the peaks. More options are in the default
   settings not necessary, but can be activated by extending the objects in the
   input file.
4. More command line arguments can be seen by activating the `-h` \ ``--help`
   flag.
5. The attributes `minimizer` and `optimizer` have to be also defined, because
   they control the optimization algorithm of lmfit. For information see
   [lmfit.mininizer][5]. The input file has to contain the following lines:
   ```json
      "parameters": {
      "minimizer": { "nan_policy": "propagate", "calc_covar": true },
      "optimizer": { "max_nfev": 1000, "method": "leastsq" }
      }
   ```
6. Starting `SpectraFit` via:
   ```terminal
   spectrafit data_file.txt input_file.json
   ```

!!! info "Peak definition in the input file"

    In the input file, the peaks has to be define as nested objects, as seen below:

    ```json
    "peaks": {
      "1": {
        "pseudovoigt": {
          "amplitude": {
            "max": 2,
            "min": 0,
            "vary": true,
            "value": 1
          },
          "center": {
            "max": 2,
            "min": -2,
            "vary": true,
            "value": 0
          },
          "fwhmg": {
            "max": 0.1,
            "min": 0.02,
            "vary": true,
            "value": 0.01
          },
          "fwhml": {
            "max": 0.1,
            "min": 0.01,
            "vary": true,
            "value": 0.01
          }
        }
      },
    ```

    First, peaks have to be declared in the input file. Every peak contains a
    number as string; like "1" for peak #1. Next, the type of peak has to be
    defined in the input. The following peak types are available:

    - [x] [Gaussian](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gaussian_function)
    - [x] [Lorentzian](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cauchy_distribution)
        also known as Cauchy distribution
    - [x] [Voigt](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Voigt_profile)
    - [x] [Pseudo Voigt][1]
    - [x] Exponential
    - [x] [Powerlaw][2] (also known as Log-parabola or just Power)
    - [x] Linear
    - [x] Constant
    - [x] [Error Function](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Error_function)
    - [x] [Arcus Tangens][3]
    - [x] Logarithmic

    More information about the models, please see the
    [Section Models](../../doc/models/). For every model, the attributes have
    to be defined. The attributes are in case of the `pseudovoigt` model:

    1. `Amplitude`: The amplitude of the distribution function.
    2. `Center`: The center of the distribution function.
    3. `FWHM`: The full width half maximum of the Gaussian distribution
    4. `FWHM`: The full width half maximum of the Lorentzian distribution

    Each attribute has sub-attributes, which are __always__:

    1. `max`: the maximum value of the attribute
    2. `min`: the minimum value of the attribute
    3. `vary`: if the attribute should be varied during the fit
    4. `value`: the initial value of the attribute

    At the moment, no default attributes are defined for the models, but this
    will come in a future release.

## Advanced Usage

In case of advanced usage of `SpectraFit`, the following steps are necessary:

### Redfine the `SpectraFit` class

Define the settings in the input file as shown below:

```json
{
"settings": {
"column": [0, 1],
"decimal": ".",
"energy_start": 0,
"energy_stop": 8,
"header": null,
"infile": "spectrafit/test/rixs_fecl4.txt",
"outfile": "fit_results",
"oversampling": false,
"separator": "\t",
"shift": 0,
"smooth": 0,
"verbose": 1,
"version": false,
"noplot": false
}
```

If the settings are pre-defined in the input file, the corresponding command
line arguments will be automatically replaced with them. If they are not
defined, the command line arguments or their default values will be use. This
allows to run faster `SpectraFit` and also be consistent in the fitting
procedure in case of larger studies. For the detail mechanism of overwriting the
settings, please see the API documentation of [Command Line Module][4].

!!! warning "Datatype of columns for `pandas.read_csv`"

     According to the documentation of [`pandas.read_csv`][17], the datatype of
     can be both: `int` or `str`. The `in` is the default. In case of using
     the header the `str` is the mandatory.

### Define project details

Another advanced feature of `SpectraFit` is to define the fit as project, which
can become very useful in case of versioning the fitting project. For using
`SpectraFit` as a project, the project details have to be defined as attributes.
The attributes are `project name`, `project details`, `keywords`, as shown in
the snippet below:

```json
"fitting": {
    "description": {
      "project_name": "Template",
      "project_details": "Template for testing",
      "keywords": [
        "2D-Spectra",
        "fitting",
        "curve-fitting",
        "peak-fitting",
        "spectrum"
      ]
    }
```

All three attributes are strings, the `project name` should be ideally a single
name with no spaces. The `project details` can be longer text, and the
`keywords` should be a list of strings for tagging in a database.

### Tuning `Minimizer` and `Optimizer` and activating `Confidence Intervals`

The input file can be extended with more parameters, which are not necessary and
optional in case of the confidence intervals. In general, the keywords of the
lmfit `minimizer` function are supported. For more information please check the
module [lmfit.mininizer][5]. The attributes have to be initialized with the
keyword `parameters` as shown below:

```json
 "parameters": {
   "minimizer": { "nan_policy": "propagate", "calc_covar": true },
   "optimizer": { "max_nfev": 1000, "method": "leastsq" },
   "report": { "min_correl": 0.0 },
   "conf_interval": {
     "p_names": null,
     "sigmas": null,
     "trace": true,
     "maxiter": 200,
     "verbose": 1,
     "prob_func": null
   }
 }
```

!!! warning "About confidence interval calculations"

     The calculations of the confidence intervals depends on the number of
     features and `maxiter`. Consequently, the confidence interval calculations
     should be only used for the final fit to put the calculation time low.

### Using mathematical expressions

The input file can be further extended by `expressions`, which are evaluated
during the fitting process. The `expressions` have to be defined as attributes
of the `fitting` object in the input file. It can be only contain mathematical
constraints or dependencies between different `peaks`; please compare the docs
of [lmfit.eval][9] and [docs][10]. The attributes are defined by the keyword
`expr` followd by the string, which can contain any mathematical expression
supported by Python.

!!! info "About the importance of expressions"

    Using the `expr` attribute, the amplitude of the peak `2` can be defined
    1 /3 of the amplitude of the peak `1`. In general, this expression mode
    is very useful in cases of fitting relative dependencies like the
    _L-edge X-ray Absorption Spectra_ (**L-XAS**), where are relative
    dependencie between the **L_3** and **L_2** edge has to be defined.

    ```json
    "peaks": {
           "1": {
             "pseudovoigt": {
               "amplitude": {
                 "max": 2,
                 "min": 0,
                 "vary": true,
                 "value": 1
               },
               "center": {
                 "max": 2,
                 "min": -2,
                 "vary": true,
                 "value": 0
               },
               "fwhmg": {
                 "max": 0.74,
                 "min": 0.02,
                 "vary": true,
                 "value": 0.21
               },
               "fwhml": {
                 "max": 0.74,
                 "min": 0.01,
                 "vary": true,
                 "value": 0.21
               }
             }
           },
           "2": {
             "pseudovoigt": {
               "amplitude": {
                 "expr": "pseudovoigt_amplitude_1 / 3"
               },
               "center": {
                 "expr": "pseudovoigt_center_1 + 1.73"
               },
               "fwhmg": {
                 "max": 0.5,
                 "min": 0.02,
                 "vary": true,
                 "value": 0.01
               },
               "fwhml": {
                 "max": 0.5,
                 "min": 0.01,
                 "vary": true,
                 "value": 0.01
               }
             }
           },
           "3": {
             "constant": {
               "amplitude": {
                 "max": 2,
                 "min": 0.01,
                 "vary": true,
                 "value": 1
               }
             }
           },
           "4": {
             "gaussian": {
               "amplitude": {
                 "max": 2,
                 "min": 0,
                 "vary": true,
                 "value": 1
               },
               "center": {
                 "expr": "pseudovoigt_center_2 + 0.35"
               },
               "fwhmg": {
                 "max": 0.4,
                 "min": 0.02,
                 "vary": true,
                 "value": 0.01
               }
             }
           }
         }
    ```

### Activating Global Fitting

The input file as well as the command line interface can be turned into the
`global fitting` mode. The `global fitting` mode is useful when the fitting
several spectra with the same initial model. In case of using the
`global fitting` **mode = 1**, the `fitting` object has to be defined in the
same way like the local fitting model; via Input file

```json
{
  "settings": {
    "column": ["energy"],
    "decimal": ".",
    "header": 0,
    "infile": "data_global.csv",
    "outfile": "example_6",
    "oversampling": false,
    "separator": ",",
    "shift": 0.2,
    "smooth": false,
    "verbose": 1,
    "version": false,
    "noplot": false,
    "global": 1,
    "autopeak": false
  }
}
```

or via Command Line.

```bash
spectrafit global_data.csv -i input.json -g 1
```

For more info please see the [example section][11].

!!! danger "Correct Data Format for Global Fits"

     For the correct fitting the data file has to contain only spectra data;
     meaning `energy` and `intensity` columns. **No other columns are
     allowed!!**

### Activating Automatic Peak detection for Fitting

The input file can further extended by `autopeak`, which is used to
automatically find the peaks in the data. The `autopeak` has to be defined as an
attribute of the `setting` object in the input file or directly via command
line:

```terminal
spectrafit data.csv -i input.json -auto
```

The default peak model is `Gaussian`, but the `setting`-section in the input
file allows switching to:

- [x] [gaussian][12]
- [x] [lorentzian][13]
- [x] [voigt][14]
- [x] [pseudovoigt][15]

Furthermore, the _finding_ attributes of the `autopeak` are identical to the
Scipy's [`find_peaks`][16]. The `autopeak` attributes have to be defined as
follows:

```json
  "autopeak": {
   "model_type": "gaussian",
   "height": [0.0, 10],
   "threshold": [0.0, 10],
   "distance": 2,
   "prominence": [0.0, 1.0],
   "width": [0.0, 10],
   "wlen": 2,
   "rel_height": 1,
   "plateau_size": 0.5
   }
```

## Configurations

In terms of the configuration of `SpectraFit`, configurations depends on
[`lmfit package`](https://lmfit.github.io/lmfit-py/fitting.html).Most of the
provided features of `lmfit` can be used. The configurations can be called as
attributes of `optimizer` and `minimizer` as shown in [Standard Usage][7] #5.
For the individualization of the configuration, please use the keywords of
`lmfit` [minimizer module][8] and also check the `SpectraFit`'s [fitting
routine][6].

## Input Files

The input file of `SpectraFit` are dictionary-like objects. The input file can
be one of these three types:

- [x] [json](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSON)
- [x] [toml](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/TOML)
- [x] [yaml](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML)

Especially, the `toml` and `yaml` files are very useful for the configuration of
`SpectraFit` due to their structure and simplicity.
https://www.convertsimple.com allows easily to convert between these three file
types.

??? example "Reference Input in `JSON`"

    ```json
    {
      "settings": {
        "column": [0, 1],
        "decimal": ".",
        "energy_start": 0,
        "energy_stop": 8,
        "header": null,
        "infile": "spectrafit/test/rixs_fecl4.txt",
        "outfile": "fit_results",
        "oversampling": false,
        "noplot": false,
        "separator": "\t",
        "shift": 0,
        "smooth": 0,
        "verbose": 1,
        "version": false
      },
      "fitting": {
        "description": {
          "project_name": "Template",
          "project_details": "Template for testing",
          "keywords": [
            "2D-Spectra",
            "fitting",
            "curve-fitting",
            "peak-fitting",
            "spectrum"
          ]
        },
        "parameters": {
          "minimizer": { "nan_policy": "propagate", "calc_covar": true },
          "optimizer": { "max_nfev": 1000, "method": "leastsq" },
          "report": { "min_correl": 0.0 },
          "conf_interval": {
            "p_names": null,
            "sigmas": null,
            "trace": true,
            "maxiter": 200,
            "verbose": 1,
            "prob_func": null
          }
        },
        "peaks": {
          "1": {
            "pseudovoigt": {
              "amplitude": {
                "max": 2,
                "min": 0,
                "vary": true,
                "value": 1
              },
              "center": {
                "max": 2,
                "min": -2,
                "vary": true,
                "value": 0
              },
              "fwhmg": {
                "max": 0.1,
                "min": 0.02,
                "vary": true,
                "value": 0.01
              },
              "fwhml": {
                "max": 0.1,
                "min": 0.01,
                "vary": true,
                "value": 0.01
              }
            }
          },
          "2": {
            "pseudovoigt": {
              "amplitude": {
                "max": 2,
                "min": 0,
                "vary": true,
                "value": 1
              },
              "center": {
                "max": 2,
                "min": -2,
                "vary": true,
                "value": 0
              },
              "fwhmg": {
                "max": 0.1,
                "min": 0.02,
                "vary": true,
                "value": 0.01
              },
              "fwhml": {
                "max": 0.1,
                "min": 0.01,
                "vary": true,
                "value": 0.01
              }
            }
          },
          "3": {
            "constant": {
              "amplitude": {
                "max": 2,
                "min": 0.01,
                "vary": true,
                "value": 1
              }
            }
          },
          "4": {
            "gaussian": {
              "amplitude": {
                "max": 2,
                "min": 0,
                "vary": true,
                "value": 1
              },
              "center": {
                "max": 2,
                "min": -2,
                "vary": true,
                "value": 0
              },
              "fwhmg": {
                "max": 0.1,
                "min": 0.02,
                "vary": true,
                "value": 0.01
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
    ```

## Jupyter Notebook Interface

The `SpectraFit` can be used in the [Jupyter Notebook][18]. First, the plugin
has to be installed as described in [Installation][19]. To use the `SpectraFit`
in the Jupyter Notebook, the `SpectraFit` has to be imported as follows:

```python
from spectrafit.plugins import jupyter
```

Next, the **peak** definition has to be defined now as follows:

```python
[
    {
        "pseudovoigt": {
            "amplitude": {"max": 2, "min": 0, "vary": True, "value": 1},
            "center": {"max": 2, "min": -2, "vary": True, "value": 0},
            "fwhmg": {"max": 0.1, "min": 0.02, "vary": True, "value": 0.01},
            "fwhml": {"max": 0.1, "min": 0.01, "vary": True, "value": 0.01},
        }
    },
    {
        "gaussian": {
            "amplitude": {"max": 2, "min": 0, "vary": True, "value": 1},
            "center": {"max": 2, "min": -2, "vary": True, "value": 0},
            "fwhmg": {"max": 0.1, "min": 0.02, "vary": True, "value": 0.01},
            "fwhml": {"max": 0.1, "min": 0.01, "vary": True, "value": 0.01},
        }
    },
]
```

!!! info "About the `Jupyter` Interface"

    The `Jupyter` interface is still under development and not yet fully
    functional. Furthermore, the peak definition is changes a little bit.
    From a `dictionary` of `dictionary` to a `list` of `dictionaries`.
    As a consequence, the peak number is not needed anymore.

    Also the _global fitting routine_ is not yet implemented for the `Jupyter`
    interface.

More information about the Jupyter Notebook interface can be found in the
[Jupyter Example][20] and the plugin documentation for
[Jupyter-SpectraFit-Interface][21] of `SpectraFit`

[1]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Voigt_profile#Pseudo-Voigt_approximation
[2]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Power_law
[3]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inverse_trigonometric_functions
[4]: ../../api/spectrafit_api/#spectrafit.spectrafit.extracted_from_command_line_runner
[5]: https://lmfit.github.io/lmfit-py/fitting.html?highlight=minimizer#module-lmfit.minimizer
[6]: ../../api/spectrafit_api/#spectrafit.spectrafit.fitting_routine
[7]: /spectrafit/interface/usage/#standard-usage
[8]: https://lmfit.github.io/lmfit-py/fitting.html?highlight=minimizer#module-lmfit.minimizer
[9]: https://lmfit.github.io/lmfit-py/constraints.html
[10]: ../../doc/expression
[11]: ../../examples/example6
[12]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Normal_distribution
[13]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cauchy_distribution
[14]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Voigt_profile
[15]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Voigt_profile#Pseudo-Voigt_approximation
[16]: https://docs.scipy.org/doc/scipy/reference/generated/scipy.signal.find_peaks.html
[17]: https://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/stable/reference/api/pandas.read_csv.html
[18]: https://jupyter.org
[19]: ../interface/installation
[20]: ../../examples/example9
[21]: ../../plugins/jupyter-spectrafit-interface

Commit message:

build(deps): bump tabulate from 0.8.10 to 0.9.0
Bumps [tabulate](https://github.com/astanin/python-tabulate) from 0.8.10 to 0.9.0.
- [Release notes](https://github.com/astanin/python-tabulate/releases)
- [Changelog](https://github.com/astanin/python-tabulate/blob/master/CHANGELOG)
- [Commits](https://github.com/astanin/python-tabulate/compare/v0.8.10...v0.9.0)

---
updated-dependencies:
- dependency-name: tabulate
  dependency-type: direct:production
  update-type: version-update:semver-minor
...

Signed-off-by: dependabot[bot] <support@github.com>

fix: :green_heart: Update and extend CI (#443)

* fix: :green_heart: Update and extend CI

* fix: :memo: Update README

* ci: :ambulance: Temp remove windows image

docs/interface/usage.md, after:

## Standard Usage

In case of the standard usage of `SpectraFit`, the following steps are
necessary:

1. Having a structured textfile available with or without header. Preferred
   fileformat can be `.csv` or `.txt`; however every file with a consistent
   separation is supported.
   ```sql
           -1.600000000000000089e+00	0.000000000000000000e+00
           -1.583333333333333481e+00	3.891050583657595843e-03
           -1.566666666666666874e+00	3.973071404922200699e-03
           -1.550000000000000266e+00	4.057709648331829684e-03
           -1.533333333333333659e+00	4.145077720207249357e-03
           -1.516666666666667052e+00	4.235294117647067993e-03
   ```
2. A wide range of pre-defined separators can be choosen: `,`, `;`, `:`, `|`,
   `\t`, `s+`, ` `
3. Having an input file available as [json](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSON),
   [toml](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/TOML), or
   [yaml](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML). The input file has to have at
   least the initial parameters for the peaks. More options are in the default
   settings not necessary, but can be activated by extending the objects in the
   input file.
4. More command line arguments can be seen by activating the `-h` \ ``--help`
   flag.
5. The attributes `minimizer` and `optimizer` have to be also defined, because
   they control the optimization algorithm of lmfit. For information see
   [lmfit.mininizer][5]. The input file has to contain the following lines:
   ```json
      "parameters": {
      "minimizer": { "nan_policy": "propagate", "calc_covar": true },
      "optimizer": { "max_nfev": 1000, "method": "leastsq" }
      }
   ```
6. Starting `SpectraFit` via:
   ```terminal
   spectrafit data_file.txt input_file.json
   ```

!!! info "Peak definition in the input file"

    In the input file, the peaks has to be define as nested objects, as seen below:

    ```json
    "peaks": {
      "1": {
        "pseudovoigt": {
          "amplitude": {
            "max": 2,
            "min": 0,
            "vary": true,
            "value": 1
          },
          "center": {
            "max": 2,
            "min": -2,
            "vary": true,
            "value": 0
          },
          "fwhmg": {
            "max": 0.1,
            "min": 0.02,
            "vary": true,
            "value": 0.01
          },
          "fwhml": {
            "max": 0.1,
            "min": 0.01,
            "vary": true,
            "value": 0.01
          }
        }
      },
    ```

    First, peaks have to be declared in the input file. Every peak contains a
    number as string; like "1" for peak #1. Next, the type of peak has to be
    defined in the input. The following peak types are available:

    - [x] [Gaussian](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gaussian_function)
    - [x] [Lorentzian](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cauchy_distribution)
        also known as Cauchy distribution
    - [x] [Voigt](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Voigt_profile)
    - [x] [Pseudo Voigt][1]
    - [x] Exponential
    - [x] [Powerlaw][2] (also known as Log-parabola or just Power)
    - [x] Linear
    - [x] Constant
    - [x] [Error Function](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Error_function)
    - [x] [Arcus Tangens][3]
    - [x] Logarithmic

    More information about the models, please see the
    [Section Models](../../doc/models/). For every model, the attributes have
    to be defined. The attributes are in case of the `pseudovoigt` model:

    1. `Amplitude`: The amplitude of the distribution function.
    2. `Center`: The center of the distribution function.
    3. `FWHM`: The full width half maximum of the Gaussian distribution
    4. `FWHM`: The full width half maximum of the Lorentzian distribution

    Each attribute has sub-attributes, which are __always__:

    1. `max`: the maximum value of the attribute
    2. `min`: the minimum value of the attribute
    3. `vary`: if the attribute should be varied during the fit
    4. `value`: the initial value of the attribute

    At the moment, no default attributes are defined for the models, but this
    will come in a future release.

## Advanced Usage

In case of advanced usage of `SpectraFit`, the following steps are necessary:

### Redfine the `SpectraFit` class

Define the settings in the input file as shown below:

```json
{
"settings": {
"column": [0, 1],
"decimal": ".",
"energy_start": 0,
"energy_stop": 8,
"header": null,
"infile": "spectrafit/test/rixs_fecl4.txt",
"outfile": "fit_results",
"oversampling": false,
"separator": "\t",
"shift": 0,
"smooth": 0,
"verbose": 1,
"version": false,
"noplot": false
}
```

If the settings are pre-defined in the input file, the corresponding command
line arguments will be automatically replaced with them. If they are not
defined, the command line arguments or their default values will be use. This
allows to run faster `SpectraFit` and also be consistent in the fitting
procedure in case of larger studies. For the detail mechanism of overwriting the
settings, please see the API documentation of [Command Line Module][4].

!!! warning "Datatype of columns for `pandas.read_csv`"

     According to the documentation of [`pandas.read_csv`][17], the datatype of
     can be both: `int` or `str`. The `in` is the default. In case of using
     the header the `str` is the mandatory.

### Define project details

Another advanced feature of `SpectraFit` is to define the fit as project, which
can become very useful in case of versioning the fitting project. For using
`SpectraFit` as a project, the project details have to be defined as attributes.
The attributes are `project name`, `project details`, `keywords`, as shown in
the snippet below:

```json
"fitting": {
    "description": {
      "project_name": "Template",
      "project_details": "Template for testing",
      "keywords": [
        "2D-Spectra",
        "fitting",
        "curve-fitting",
        "peak-fitting",
        "spectrum"
      ]
    }
```

All three attributes are strings, the `project name` should be ideally a single
name with no spaces. The `project details` can be longer text, and the
`keywords` should be a list of strings for tagging in a database.

### Tuning `Minimizer` and `Optimizer` and activating `Confidence Intervals`

The input file can be extended with more parameters, which are not necessary and
optional in case of the confidence intervals. In general, the keywords of the
lmfit `minimizer` function are supported. For more information please check the
module [lmfit.mininizer][5]. The attributes have to be initialized with the
keyword `parameters` as shown below:

```json
 "parameters": {
   "minimizer": { "nan_policy": "propagate", "calc_covar": true },
   "optimizer": { "max_nfev": 1000, "method": "leastsq" },
   "report": { "min_correl": 0.0 },
   "conf_interval": {
     "p_names": null,
     "sigmas": null,
     "trace": true,
     "maxiter": 200,
     "verbose": 1,
     "prob_func": null
   }
 }
```

!!! warning "About confidence interval calculations"

     The calculations of the confidence intervals depends on the number of
     features and `maxiter`. Consequently, the confidence interval calculations
     should be only used for the final fit to put the calculation time low.

### Using mathematical expressions

The input file can be further extended by `expressions`, which are evaluated
during the fitting process. The `expressions` have to be defined as attributes
of the `fitting` object in the input file. It can be only contain mathematical
constraints or dependencies between different `peaks`; please compare the docs
of [lmfit.eval][9] and [docs][10]. The attributes are defined by the keyword
`expr` followd by the string, which can contain any mathematical expression
supported by Python.

!!! info "About the importance of expressions"

    Using the `expr` attribute, the amplitude of the peak `2` can be defined
    1 /3 of the amplitude of the peak `1`. In general, this expression mode
    is very useful in cases of fitting relative dependencies like the
    _L-edge X-ray Absorption Spectra_ (**L-XAS**), where are relative
    dependencie between the **L_3** and **L_2** edge has to be defined.

    ```json
    "peaks": {
           "1": {
             "pseudovoigt": {
               "amplitude": {
                 "max": 2,
                 "min": 0,
                 "vary": true,
                 "value": 1
               },
               "center": {
                 "max": 2,
                 "min": -2,
                 "vary": true,
                 "value": 0
               },
               "fwhmg": {
                 "max": 0.74,
                 "min": 0.02,
                 "vary": true,
                 "value": 0.21
               },
               "fwhml": {
                 "max": 0.74,
                 "min": 0.01,
                 "vary": true,
                 "value": 0.21
               }
             }
           },
           "2": {
             "pseudovoigt": {
               "amplitude": {
                 "expr": "pseudovoigt_amplitude_1 / 3"
               },
               "center": {
                 "expr": "pseudovoigt_center_1 + 1.73"
               },
               "fwhmg": {
                 "max": 0.5,
                 "min": 0.02,
                 "vary": true,
                 "value": 0.01
               },
               "fwhml": {
                 "max": 0.5,
                 "min": 0.01,
                 "vary": true,
                 "value": 0.01
               }
             }
           },
           "3": {
             "constant": {
               "amplitude": {
                 "max": 2,
                 "min": 0.01,
                 "vary": true,
                 "value": 1
               }
             }
           },
           "4": {
             "gaussian": {
               "amplitude": {
                 "max": 2,
                 "min": 0,
                 "vary": true,
                 "value": 1
               },
               "center": {
                 "expr": "pseudovoigt_center_2 + 0.35"
               },
               "fwhmg": {
                 "max": 0.4,
                 "min": 0.02,
                 "vary": true,
                 "value": 0.01
               }
             }
           }
         }
    ```

### Activating Global Fitting

The input file as well as the command line interface can be turned into the
`global fitting` mode. The `global fitting` mode is useful when the fitting
several spectra with the same initial model. In case of using the
`global fitting` **mode = 1**, the `fitting` object has to be defined in the
same way like the local fitting model; via Input file

```json
{
  "settings": {
    "column": ["energy"],
    "decimal": ".",
    "header": 0,
    "infile": "data_global.csv",
    "outfile": "example_6",
    "oversampling": false,
    "separator": ",",
    "shift": 0.2,
    "smooth": false,
    "verbose": 1,
    "version": false,
    "noplot": false,
    "global": 1,
    "autopeak": false
  }
}
```

or via Command Line.

```bash
spectrafit global_data.csv -i input.json -g 1
```

For more info please see the [example section][11].

!!! danger "Correct Data Format for Global Fits"

     For the correct fitting the data file has to contain only spectra data;
     meaning `energy` and `intensity` columns. **No other columns are
     allowed!!**

### Activating Automatic Peak detection for Fitting

The input file can further extended by `autopeak`, which is used to
automatically find the peaks in the data. The `autopeak` has to be defined as an
attribute of the `setting` object in the input file or directly via command
line:

```terminal
spectrafit data.csv -i input.json -auto
```

The default peak model is `Gaussian`, but the `setting`-section in the input
file allows switching to:

- [x] [gaussian][12]
- [x] [lorentzian][13]
- [x] [voigt][14]
- [x] [pseudovoigt][15]

Furthermore, the _finding_ attributes of the `autopeak` are identical to the
Scipy's [`find_peaks`][16]. The `autopeak` attributes have to be defined as
follows:

```json
  "autopeak": {
   "model_type": "gaussian",
   "height": [0.0, 10],
   "threshold": [0.0, 10],
   "distance": 2,
   "prominence": [0.0, 1.0],
   "width": [0.0, 10],
   "wlen": 2,
   "rel_height": 1,
   "plateau_size": 0.5
   }
```

## Configurations

In terms of the configuration of `SpectraFit`, configurations depends on
[`lmfit package`](https://lmfit.github.io/lmfit-py/fitting.html).Most of the
provided features of `lmfit` can be used. The configurations can be called as
attributes of `optimizer` and `minimizer` as shown in [Standard Usage][7] #5.
For the individualization of the configuration, please use the keywords of
`lmfit` [minimizer module][8] and also check the `SpectraFit`'s [fitting
routine][6].

## Input Files

The input file of `SpectraFit` are dictionary-like objects. The input file can
be one of these three types:

- [x] [json](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSON)
- [x] [toml](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/TOML)
- [x] [yaml](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML)

Especially, the `toml` and `yaml` files are very useful for the configuration of
`SpectraFit` due to their structure and simplicity.
https://www.convertsimple.com allows easily to convert between these three file
types.

??? example "Reference Input in `JSON`"

    ```json
    {
      "settings": {
        "column": [0, 1],
        "decimal": ".",
        "energy_start": 0,
        "energy_stop": 8,
        "header": null,
        "infile": "spectrafit/test/rixs_fecl4.txt",
        "outfile": "fit_results",
        "oversampling": false,
        "noplot": false,
        "separator": "\t",
        "shift": 0,
        "smooth": 0,
        "verbose": 1,
        "version": false
      },
      "fitting": {
        "description": {
          "project_name": "Template",
          "project_details": "Template for testing",
          "keywords": [
            "2D-Spectra",
            "fitting",
            "curve-fitting",
            "peak-fitting",
            "spectrum"
          ]
        },
        "parameters": {
          "minimizer": { "nan_policy": "propagate", "calc_covar": true },
          "optimizer": { "max_nfev": 1000, "method": "leastsq" },
          "report": { "min_correl": 0.0 },
          "conf_interval": {
            "p_names": null,
            "sigmas": null,
            "trace": true,
            "maxiter": 200,
            "verbose": 1,
            "prob_func": null
          }
        },
        "peaks": {
          "1": {
            "pseudovoigt": {
              "amplitude": {
                "max": 2,
                "min": 0,
                "vary": true,
                "value": 1
              },
              "center": {
                "max": 2,
                "min": -2,
                "vary": true,
                "value": 0
              },
              "fwhmg": {
                "max": 0.1,
                "min": 0.02,
                "vary": true,
                "value": 0.01
              },
              "fwhml": {
                "max": 0.1,
                "min": 0.01,
                "vary": true,
                "value": 0.01
              }
            }
          },
          "2": {
            "pseudovoigt": {
              "amplitude": {
                "max": 2,
                "min": 0,
                "vary": true,
                "value": 1
              },
              "center": {
                "max": 2,
                "min": -2,
                "vary": true,
                "value": 0
              },
              "fwhmg": {
                "max": 0.1,
                "min": 0.02,
                "vary": true,
                "value": 0.01
              },
              "fwhml": {
                "max": 0.1,
                "min": 0.01,
                "vary": true,
                "value": 0.01
              }
            }
          },
          "3": {
            "constant": {
              "amplitude": {
                "max": 2,
                "min": 0.01,
                "vary": true,
                "value": 1
              }
            }
          },
          "4": {
            "gaussian": {
              "amplitude": {
                "max": 2,
                "min": 0,
                "vary": true,
                "value": 1
              },
              "center": {
                "max": 2,
                "min": -2,
                "vary": true,
                "value": 0
              },
              "fwhmg": {
                "max": 0.1,
                "min": 0.02,
                "vary": true,
                "value": 0.01
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
    ```

## Jupyter Notebook Interface

The `SpectraFit` can be used in the [Jupyter Notebook][18]. First, the plugin
has to be installed as described in [Installation][19]. To use the `SpectraFit`
in the Jupyter Notebook, the `SpectraFit` has to be imported as follows:

```python
from spectrafit.plugins import notebook
```

Next, the **peak** definition has to be defined now as follows:

```python
initial_model = [
    {
        "pseudovoigt": {
            "amplitude": {"max": 2, "min": 0, "vary": True, "value": 1},
            "center": {"max": 2, "min": -2, "vary": True, "value": 0},
            "fwhmg": {"max": 0.1, "min": 0.02, "vary": True, "value": 0.01},
            "fwhml": {"max": 0.1, "min": 0.01, "vary": True, "value": 0.01},
        }
    },
    {
        "gaussian": {
            "amplitude": {"max": 2, "min": 0, "vary": True, "value": 1},
            "center": {"max": 2, "min": -2, "vary": True, "value": 0},
            "fwhmg": {"max": 0.1, "min": 0.02, "vary": True, "value": 0.01},
        }
    },
]
```

For generating the first fit via `spectrafit.plugins.notebook`, the following
code has to be used:

```python
spf = SpectraFitNotebook(df=df, x_column="Energy", y_column="Noisy")
spf.solver_model(
    initial_model,
)
```

and to save the results as `toml` file, just save the `spf` object as follows:

```python
spf.generate_report
```

!!! info "About the `Jupyter` Interface"

    The `Jupyter` interface is still under development and not yet fully
    functional. Furthermore, the peak definition is changes a little bit.
    From a `dictionary` of `dictionary` to a `list` of `dictionaries`.
    As a consequence, the peak number is not needed anymore.

    Also the _global fitting routine_ is not yet implemented for the `Jupyter`
    interface.

More information about the Jupyter Notebook interface can be found in the
[Jupyter Example][20] and the plugin documentation for
[Jupyter-SpectraFit-Interface][21] of `SpectraFit`

[1]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Voigt_profile#Pseudo-Voigt_approximation
[2]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Power_law
[3]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inverse_trigonometric_functions
[4]: ../../api/spectrafit_api/#spectrafit.spectrafit.extracted_from_command_line_runner
[5]: https://lmfit.github.io/lmfit-py/fitting.html?highlight=minimizer#module-lmfit.minimizer
[6]: ../../api/spectrafit_api/#spectrafit.spectrafit.fitting_routine
[7]: /spectrafit/interface/usage/#standard-usage
[8]: https://lmfit.github.io/lmfit-py/fitting.html?highlight=minimizer#module-lmfit.minimizer
[9]: https://lmfit.github.io/lmfit-py/constraints.html
[10]: ../../doc/expression
[11]: ../../examples/example6
[12]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Normal_distribution
[13]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cauchy_distribution
[14]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Voigt_profile
[15]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Voigt_profile#Pseudo-Voigt_approximation
[16]: https://docs.scipy.org/doc/scipy/reference/generated/scipy.signal.find_peaks.html
[17]: https://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/stable/reference/api/pandas.read_csv.html
[18]: https://jupyter.org
[19]: ../interface/installation
[20]: ../../examples/example9
[21]: ../../plugins/jupyter-spectrafit-interface
