docs/api/converter_api.md, before:

!!! info "About the Converter API"

    The **Converter API** is a new feature in the v0.12.x release of
    `SpectraFit` with major focus on:

    1. Data Validation
    2. Settings Management

    In general, input and data files are converted to the internal data format,
    which are [dictionaries][1] for the input data and [pandas dataframes][2]
    for the data files. The Converter API is realized by using the
    [`ABC`-class][3] and the [`@abstractmethod`][4] decorator, while
    the File API is using the [pydantic][5] library.

### Meta Data Converter Class

::: spectrafit.plugins.converter

### Input and Output File Converter for object-oriented formats

::: spectrafit.plugins.file_converter

### Data Converter for rational data formats like CSV, Excel, etc.

::: spectrafit.plugins.data_converter

### Pkl Converter for pickle files

::: spectrafit.plugins.pkl_converter

!!! info "About [pickle file][6] and the PklVisualizer"

    In addition to exploring the nested structure of the Python's
    [pickle file][6], the `PklVisualizer` provides two methods to visualize
    the data:

    1. As graph via [`networkx`][7] and [`matplotlib`][8]
    2. As json file with  used types

::: spectrafit.plugins.pkl_visualizer

### RIXS Converter for RIXS data

::: spectrafit.plugins.rixs_converter

On top of the `RIXSConverter` class, the `RIXSVisualizer` class is
available to visualize the RIXS data and provide a method to take
RIXS cuts.

::: spectrafit.plugins.rixs_visualizer

[1]: https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/datastructures.html#dictionaries
[2]: https://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/stable/reference/api/pandas.DataFrame.html
[3]: https://docs.python.org/3/library/abc.html#abc.ABC
[4]: https://docs.python.org/3/library/abc.html#abc.abstractmethod
[5]: https://pydantic-docs.helpmanual.io/
[6]: https://docs.python.org/3/library/pickle.html
[7]: https://networkx.org
[8]: https://matplotlib.org

Commit message:

feat: 🚀  Add PPTX Converter (#904)
* fix: :pencil2: Consistently nomenclature for `chi_square`

* refactor: :lipstick: Change from global variable to class attribute

* build: :recycle: Pre-Commit update and cleaning

* build: :bookmark: Bump to `v0.21.0`

* feat: :rocket: Add PPTX Converter

* docs: :memo: Update docs

* refactor: :recycle: Remove code smell

* refactor: :recycle: Split function call into subfunctions

* refactor: :recycle: Further simplifications

* refactor: :recycle: further extracting methods

* test: :chart_with_upwards_trend: Increase coverage rate

* ci: :memo: Update automatically generated docs

* refactor: :camera_flash: Change layout and update docs

* style: :pencil2: Fixed typos for `raise-test``

* fix: :building_construction: Apply latest bug fix for `nbclassic-extension`

* docs: :memo: Add `polynomial function` to docs

* chore: :recycle: Definition of labeler

* fix: :bug: Use correct examples

* ci: :wrench: Update labeler

docs/api/converter_api.md, after:

!!! info "About the Converter API"

    The **Converter API** is a new feature in the v0.12.x release of
    `SpectraFit` with major focus on:

    1. Data Validation
    2. Settings Management

    In general, input and data files are converted to the internal data format,
    which are [dictionaries][1] for the input data and [pandas dataframes][2]
    for the data files. The Converter API is realized by using the
    [`ABC`-class][3] and the [`@abstractmethod`][4] decorator, while
    the File API is using the [pydantic][5] library.

### Meta Data Converter Class

::: spectrafit.plugins.converter

### Input and Output File Converter for object-oriented formats

::: spectrafit.plugins.file_converter

### Data Converter for rational data formats like CSV, Excel, etc.

::: spectrafit.plugins.data_converter

### Pkl Converter for pickle files

::: spectrafit.plugins.pkl_converter

!!! info "About [pickle file][6] and the PklVisualizer"

    In addition to exploring the nested structure of the Python's
    [pickle file][6], the `PklVisualizer` provides two methods to visualize
    the data:

    1. As graph via [`networkx`][7] and [`matplotlib`][8]
    2. As json file with  used types

::: spectrafit.plugins.pkl_visualizer

### RIXS Converter for RIXS data

::: spectrafit.plugins.rixs_converter

On top of the `RIXSConverter` class, the `RIXSVisualizer` class is
available to visualize the RIXS data and provide a method to take
RIXS cuts.

::: spectrafit.plugins.rixs_visualizer

### PPTX Converter for PowerPoint files

!!! warning "About the PPTX Converter"

    The `PPTXConverter` class is a work in progress and is subject to change.
    Especially, the layout of the PowerPoint file is not yet finalized.

::: spectrafit.plugins.pptx_converter

[1]: https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/datastructures.html#dictionaries
[2]: https://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/stable/reference/api/pandas.DataFrame.html
[3]: https://docs.python.org/3/library/abc.html#abc.ABC
[4]: https://docs.python.org/3/library/abc.html#abc.abstractmethod
[5]: https://pydantic-docs.helpmanual.io/
[6]: https://docs.python.org/3/library/pickle.html
[7]: https://networkx.org
[8]: https://matplotlib.org
